[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello and welcome to "Eat
Like You Love Yourself",
a guide to discovering your own
unique formula for thriving.
And today, I want to fill you
in on what eating like you
love yourself actually means.
But first, let's just touch
on why eating like you
love yourself is so important.
So according to the Centers for
Disease Control in the United
States, chronic
diseases and conditions
like heart disease, cancer,
type 2 diabetes, obesity,
and arthritis are among
the most common, costly,
and preventable of
all health problems.
The bad news is lifestyle
choices like what we eat
and how we exercise are among
the biggest risk factors
for contracting these issues.
What that means is that we
are making ourselves sick.
But the good news is that
these same lifestyle factors
are some of our
most powerful tools
for preventing and
managing these same issues.
Another reason why
learning to eat
like you love
yourself makes sense
is that there are so many voices
and so much conflicting advice
out there these days
about how to live
and how to eat that
we are more confused
about how to
experience and create
wholeness than we
have ever been.
And our confusion
is actually creating
an experience of complacency,
and fear, and self-judgment
rather than fostering the
curiosity, and acceptance,
and empowerment that's
necessary for us
to truly discover our own
unique formula for thriving.
And so I want to acknowledge
you for having the curiosity
to join me on this
journey of understanding
and loving yourself better.
And with that said,
let's talk about some
of the more practical aspects of
eating like you love yourself.
I am a huge fan of
keeping things simple,
and so I have developed
three simple rules
for eating like
you love yourself
based on the ancient healing and
living principles of Ayurveda.
Number one, eat seasonally.
So this comes from
an understanding
that what goes on outside of us
actually goes on inside of us
as well, right?
We change as the environments
around us change,
and our relationship
with the natural world
is such that it
supports our needs.
So eating seasonally
means eating
the foods that come out of the
ground where and when you are.
Those are the foods
that are going
to have the qualities that
you need to experience balance
in that season.
They're also going
to be the foods
it'll be most economical,
so eat what grows near you.
And if you can't
do that, discover
what's in season where you
are and choose those items
from your local grocery store.
Number two, keep
your fire burning.
So according to Ayurveda,
we are digesting machines.
Within each of us burns of
fire, a metabolic capacity
for breaking down and processing
all of the different things
that we come into contact
with so that we can extract
the nutrients, the things that
are going to feed us, and let
go of everything
else-- all those things
that don't serve us.
And so imagine that.
Every sight and
sound, every idea
and every emotion, every
piece of information
that you come into contact
with has to actually
be processed by your body mind.
And as you can imagine,
that is no small job.
And so we've got to safeguard
our mental, and emotional,
and physical systems
for digestion
by ensuring that, like a
fire, we don't overload them
and also that we feed them with
the sorts of foods and fuel
that can support and
keep them burning strong.
In a food sense, this
would mean including
things like spices
and foods that promote
gut health in your diet.
And lastly, you're going
to want to choose balance.
So most of us eat
according to patterns
that were set either as
children or at some point
in our adulthood.
And while there is nothing wrong
with patterns and routines,
what they sometimes take
away from us is our ability
to be present and responsive to
our current moment experience--
so things like
how hungry we are,
or our mental and
emotional state,
or how well our systems of
digestion and elimination
are working.
So food is a powerful tool
for helping to create balance
in all of these areas.
And so tuning into where
we are and what we need
is a really vital
part of determining
what to cook and eat.
Because when we commit
to choosing balance,
it means that rather than
disconnecting from ourselves
and from our choices--
which can sometimes
lead to things
like using food
for entertainment,
or for comfort, or for therapy--
we would make a more
empowered choice
to eat in a way that
supports our wholeness
and our needs in the moment.
And so, ultimately,
eating like you
love yourself means
knowing yourself.
And that means getting
honest with yourself
about how hungry you are,
about the physical, mental,
and emotional baggage
that you're carrying.
It means asking yourself what
your mind and body really need,
and also what it would look
like to choose yourself.
And it also means
knowing your food.
So what are the qualities
of the foods that
can support your need to lighten
up, to feel more grounded,
and to create clarity, calm,
and resilience in mind and body?
[MUSIC PLAYING]